# HABIT50
#### Video Demo:  <URL: https://youtu.be/FITtEvKnpNE>
#### Description:

My final project is a habit tracker called Habit50. I chose a habit tracker because I have always enjoyed the clean and modern look most habit trackers have while also their relatively simple objectives. Adding a habit to improve oneself or maintain a goal or the like. I chose to go with a light pastel colour way with pink as my main highlight colour.

The first thing I made was the layout page which I was inspired by from the finance50 task. This allowed to start all my other pages. I made the login page which I was able to do relatively easily from the Finance50 task. Though encountering many initial errors as I chose to start my project outside of the CS50 codespace which resulted in lots of troubleshooting to figure out what packages I needed to download, how to set everything up etc. Once I got that going, I made my login and register pages and an initial error page. This included my sql database users to allow people to login and out (including a hashed password).

Following this, the next page I made was the add page which would allow users to add habits. While the overall creation of a form with inputs was not very complicated as it is similar to the register page, I struggled slightly with my specific options I wanted to add - for example, the ability for the user to pick what time of the day the habit is and allowing them to pick multiple (so a habit could occur in the morning AND the afternoon) and figuring out how to add both to my sql database habits which records all the inputs. Equally, for my start date option, I took so long trying to implement it as I initially found an online tutorial for a full fledged calendar using javascript that could be opened and looked through however following this tutorial I couldn't make specific dates a clickable option that would then be recorded and so I gave up on the idea. I also wanted it to be a popup menu using a span but it would clash with the rest of the page and wouldn't work as I liked it. It was only much later that I found that the base website calendar was an option that could be used making it much easier.

Next, I created the index.html page, or my homepage, with the vision of creating a table and rows for each habit added. Fetching the data from sql database and adding it to a table was relatively simple, as well as all the html required to make it look how I wanted it to. The hardest part for me was figuring out how to complete a habit. I wanted to add the checkbox which would then update the database habit_completions to true for that habit and thus move it to a new table for completed habits - this took me a long time to figure out especially with all the Javascript code that I had to do. This may have taken me the longest time to figure out and a large part was because of a slight error I had in my db.execute code which meant that it wouldn't go through - after lots of debugging I just deleted the code in my app.py file and redid it completely and it worked. 

Then I added the progress page to show progress for the different days - initially wanting it to show for months and be able to show if you fail a habit and keep track of that failure, I chose to just create the table that turns green when you complete a habit. I also wasn't sure what to do for habits that are only supposed to be weekly for example (would completing them for the one day that week make the entire week green or just that day etc)

Lastly I added a profile page where you can change username and then finally fixed up all my designs which included making a logo for habit50, adding the pictures, selecting colours, polishing up the error page, and more. Overall I am very happy with my final product and I realise that my least favourite part of website programming is Javascript which I still struggle with more than anything else. 